Hey, it's Steve Eisman and we're going
to talk about AI today with our guest.
This is a topic that we have explored
for many, many months. It is crucial to
the future of the US economy. Recently,
hyperscalers have announced that they
are increasing their budgets enormously.
The top four hyperscalers are going to
literally spend $650 billion dollar
alone on tech stuff all related to AI.
The future of the US economy is really
at stake. And a few weeks ago we had on
Gary Marcus who's a big critic of LLMs
and argues that they are losing their
efficaciousness. And so I wanted a
second opinion because this is just too
important a topic. And so today we have
Columbia professor Danny Guetta who as
you'll see agrees with Gary on certain
points but disagrees on others and we're
going to explore all of that and
afterwards I'll be back to talk about
what we've learned.
Hi, this is Steve Eisman and welcome to
another episode of the real Eisman
playbook. And today we're going to
explore the world of AI, but not per se
from a business perspective, but from
the within the guts of AI, you know, is
AI a bubble? Is it going to change the
world? You know, these are questions
that we've explored over in our podcast
over the last many, many months. And to
help us go further is our guest,
Professor Daniel Gua, who was a
professor at the Columbia Business
School. Daniel, welcome.
>> Thank you so much for having me, Steve.
This is going to be great. Really
excited for the conversation. really
excited. So before we get started, why
don't you just give us a little bit
about your background to explain why
you're here?
>> Yeah. No, absolutely. I mean, my whole
sort of career has been working on kind
of AI even before it was cool. Uh so I
started off doing my PhD in datadriven
supply chain management a while back and
I was really lucky. I got to spend some
time at Amazon doing that which
obviously is a great place to study uh
supply chains. After that PhD, I went to
work at Palanteer Technologies. Um,
yeah, I was not a US citizen at the
time, so they didn't let me close to the
government stuff, but I did get to work
a lot on their commercial business and
that just involved going around the
world working with companies in just a
whole range of industries and helping
them figure out how to do what they do
better, but using data, AI, analytics,
that kind of stuff. And then around
eight years ago, uh, the dean of the
business school at Colombia, uh, Cassis
McLaras, he kind of already back then
had the foresight to realize that this
kind of data analytics wave was, you
know, not going anywhere, that it was
here to stay. And so he asked me if I
would come back to Colombia to kind of
help build up the data and analytics
curriculum. And that's kind of what I've
been doing there. And, you know, I get
to work with companies, help them figure
out how to get value out of AI. I get to
teach classes on AI, operations, coding,
all that kind of stuff. And I'm very
lucky to get to teach our MBA students,
engineering students, executives, but
then also um we even launched this open
program with Wall Street prep. So now
anyone can take that program. The reason
I mentioned it is because we were
introduced by a student of mine from
that program. So hat trip to Ari. Thank
you for the introduction. Yeah.
>> So let's let's start with um the big
topic which is large language models.
Before we talk about how efficacious
they are, you know, when when you watch
business news, they all they're really
talking about is how many chips are
being bought? Who's who's ahead? Is it
Google? Is it OpenAI? But let's go to
let's get to basics. What exactly is a
large language model? And how does it
work?
>> It's a great question and I think if I
may, I think it makes sense to even take
one step back and to say what even is
AI? Like I think large language models
have almost become synonymous with AI in
people's minds, but they're not. I mean,
that is not the only thing AI is. And I
think it's actually helpful to think of
two different kinds of AI. You have kind
of predictive AI that you also hear
called machine learning or predictive
analytics. And that's been around for a
while and very successful for a while.
And then you have Gen AI, so including
those large language models that have
been uh kind of more recent. And it's
actually really helpful to dig in to
what each of those two mean because as
we'll see it's really like understanding
what those two things are really makes a
difference to understanding how large
language models work and how they sort
of fit into the broader landscape. So if
we start with this predictive AI been
around for a while since the 80s or '9s
and and the idea really is to just say
can we look at a data set can we
identify patterns in the data set and
can we kind of do something useful with
those patterns and so my favorite
example is uh the Zestimate. You know,
when you go on Zillow and you look at a
property, it gives you the the estimated
price of what that property would be. I
always joke with my students, right?
There's like all kinds of lofty reasons
you might use it, like real estate
development to buy a house, sell a
house. Really, people are using it to
find out how rich their neighbors are.
So, that that number, right, that you
just get when you go,
>> how expensive is the house that's next
door to me?
>> How expensive is the house that's next
door to me? That's exactly right. So,
you know, that is a machine learning
model. That is a predictive AI model. It
uses stuff about the property to predict
what it price is going to be. And if you
were thinking, you know, how does it
work? Obviously, it's quite complex. But
if you were to build a slightly simple
version, maybe just with houses on
upware site, what could you do? Maybe
you'd look at the square footage of the
property plus, you know, the number of
bedrooms, number of bathrooms, and then
maybe you'd say every square foot is
worth 2,000 bucks, every bathroom is
worth 10,000 bucks, whatever. Add them
all up.
>> It'd be a fairly simple model.
>> Fairly simple model. Now,
what makes it a machine learning model
rather than just like a sum you come up
with yourself is the fact that the way
Zillow creates it is they train it using
historical data. And what do I mean by
that? They're going to take a huge trove
of data, right, from uh uh previous
properties that have sold. They're going
to look at data about those properties
and they're going to start with totally
random numbers for the value of each
element. So, they might begin by saying
a square foot is worth $1. Totally
incorrect. That's going to give really
bad predictions. But then they tweak
that number, okay, until it fits the
data as closely as possible, right? And
that's absolutely fundamental as we'll
see later to even how large language
models are trained. And just in
terminology, this is called training.
The kind of tweaking of those numbers
and you often hear something called
parameters or weights. That is what
those numbers are. They're kind of
parameters or weights of those of those
models. Uh and so you're tweaking them
as you sort of create uh create the
model.
>> Okay. So that's been around for a long
time.
>> That's been around for a long time.
Absolutely. And just it's worth just
saying it's been around for a long time,
but I think today if you tell me like if
you look at the value generated by AI,
what percentage of it comes from that,
it's huge and it's still massive. Every
time you swipe a credit card, fraud
analytics, uh figuring out if someone
should be able to borrow money, sort of
uh uh you know, uh creditworthiness, um
when you order a lift, right, how much
it should cost and what the length of
the trip is going to be, all that is
really sort of based on that AI. So, you
know, how's that different from the new
kind of AI, the Gen AI, the LLMs? The
problem with that old kind of AI is that
it only really works with numbers, with
numerical data, stuff you can put in
Excel. So, thinking back to this
estimate, you can use the square
footage, the number of bedrooms, number
of bathrooms, but what if you want to
use the image, right, the picture of the
house, or you want to use the text that
you see inside the description.
>> You can't really put that in a model
like that because you can't multiply
text. It's not a number, right? You
can't do anything with it. and uh uh you
know uh so that kind of was a limitation
of those uh models and really that's
where the deep learning the genai
revolution sort of came along and
overcame that limitation right so this
was maybe in the mid2010s I mean it's
started at various times but let's say
sort of the mid2010s this new field
called deep learning came along that
introduced these models called deep
neural networks and large language
models are an example of those deep
neural networks and what they can do is
just like as a human you're if we're
reading a piece of text, we kind of
understand what it says. We get kind of
the concept behind the piece of text.
Those models can also do that, right?
And the way they do that is by using an
enormous number of parameters, an
enormous amount of data. And maybe we'll
get into how that works, right? Sort of
mysteriously, but they're effectively
using just enormous amounts of data to
understand what's going on behind the
text. But I think it's important to
point out, and you discussed this with
Gary Marcus a few weeks ago, and we'll
touch on it today again, maybe
understanding is a misnomer, right?
because all they're doing is they're
training themselves on historical data
and trying to mimic those patterns. And
so is that understanding? Is that not
understanding? And maybe we'll we'll get
into that, but that's how these models
work. And sort of they overcame that
limitation of machine learning because
they're now able to use all this
unstructured data.
>> So
what can a large language model do
that the old probabilistic AI can't do?
Give us an example.
>> Yeah. So first of all, I don't know that
it necessarily makes sense to say large
language model versus probabilistic AI.
These large language models are a kind
of probabilistic AI, right? I mean they
they sort of, you know, are a much
bigger version. They have many more
parameters. They have many more sort of
uh so that's the first thing to point
out, but generally it is that idea of
looking at completely unstructured data.
I mean that is sort of you know their
magic. that is what they're able to do.
A historical sort of one of those
historical probabilistic AI, machine
learning, predictive AI models couldn't
look at a piece of text and understand
what it says. Now, people had ways to
get around that. They would say like,
oh, if I want to understand a piece of
text, let me look at the number of happy
words in the piece of text. Like, you
know, if the text says wonderful and
amazing and fantabulous and whatever,
then that means it's probably positive.
But those were very sort of uh
simplistic ways of looking at text.
these large language models can actually
look at text and kind of almost
understand it.
>> So why do large language models
hallucinate? And let's talk about
exactly what's a what is a
hallucination?
>> That's a great question. If you'll allow
me, this is going to be a very long
answer, but I think to kind of get to
kind of I I want because I've, you know,
I gave an example about a recent
hallucination which I just discussed
with Gary Morris, which was on the day
that uh Madura was taken out of
Venezuela, within like the first hour,
um people went on to chat GPT and said,
"What's going on with Madura getting
taken out of Venezuela?" And chat GPT
responds, "Maduro is still in
Venezuela." Right? Because because
apparently large language models have a
problem with novelty, but let's talk
about hallucination.
>> Let's just tell you how they work. I
mean, how those models work, how they
end up hallucinating. Long story short,
I'll tell you the answer already. What
you should be surprised by is that they
ever don't hallucinate, right? The fact
they do hallucinate is kind of, you
know, that's like not the surprising
part.
>> You got the right answer.
>> The fact they ever get it right, right,
is is crazy. So, okay, how do these
models work? I'm going to explain it at
various levels. Let's start at the top
level. This is something your listeners
may have heard already, but it's worth
repeating. These are just autocomplete
engines, right? So, I don't know if
you've ever played a parlor game where
you say a word, the next person says a
word, the next person says a word, and
you kind of build up a story together.
Yes, that is basically what they're
doing. So, for example, if you ask a
model, you know, what is the capital of
Argentina? It's going to look at the
question, it's going to say, huh, I
wonder what the next word would be.
Maybe the capital of Argentina. And it
would say, oh, buenos might be the next
word. And then, and this is key, it's
going to look back at the full
conversation. What is the capital of
Argentina, Buenos? And then it's going
to say, if that was a useful
conversation between a chatbot and a
human, what would the next word after
that be? And it would say iris. And it
would continue until it decides, I'm
done. Now, by the way, just a side note,
unrelated to hallucinations, but this is
why part of the reason they're so
expensive is every time you want the
next word, you have to reprocess the
entire conversation from the beginning,
right? Which is kind of wild. So if
you've already spoken to it for like you
know you know 10,000 words to generate
the 10,000 and1 word it has to reprocess
all those 10,000 words through the
model. So that's kind of crazy.
>> That eats up a lot of energy.
>> Eats up a lot of energy, which is why,
you know, I mean, we could talk about
energy. Certainly get certainly get
energy.
>> But okay, so now I understand why it
eats up so much energy.
>> That's why eat up so much energy. Now,
how does it do that? How does it know
what the next word is? And the key
concept you need to get, and I promise
you this is as technical as this gets,
but I think it's just it really helps to
kind of know this is a concept called an
embedding. And what an embedding is is
you take a word and you basically turn
it to numbers. Right? You remember I
said that the limitation of those
machine learning models was they
couldn't look at words. Well, those
embeddings convert the words to numbers
so the computers can understand them.
Okay? And maybe the easiest way to kind
of get what an embedding is, imagine you
take uh every word in the English
language and you give it two scores.
>> The first score is how alive it is. So
maybe a human gets a 10, a rock gets a
zero, uh uh I don't know, a spider gets
a five, a carrot gets a two. You get the
idea.
>> Yes.
>> And then the second score is maybe how
loud it is. So maybe a loud. Yeah. Maybe
a baby gets a 10. Maybe, you know, rock
gets a zero. Maybe a carrot gets a one
because it's like quiet, but if you
crunch into it, it makes a sound.
>> So, every word has two scores.
>> Every word has two scores. Now, you
could imagine taking those scores and
putting them on this kind of XYaxis,
right? On a piece of graph paper,
>> every word.
>> Every word based on those scores. So,
the x axis is how alive it is and the
y-axis is how loud it is.
>> And if you think of that piece of paper,
you're going to start
>> who gives the score.
>> Love the question. I promise you we're
getting there in like 30 seconds. This
is like
>> there's is there a referee?
>> Oh, so it's the key key question, right?
And that's the first question.
>> Who's making that decision?
>> Whenever I tell students, they always
ask me that question. And the answer is
is crazy. But we we we'll get there. So,
you know, you have that piece of paper,
you got the scores, and you can imagine
you're now going to get these kinds of
clusters, right? Like the the vegetables
are going to be, you know, bunched up in
one side, the humans are on the other
side, etc. And the profound thing about
that is that now those scores kind of
give you they allow the computer to look
at numbers and those numbers kind of
tell you ah I know something about the
word right if I tell you a word is like
zero on the live scale and nine on the
loud scale
>> guess what it's going to be close to the
cluster that contains like fogghorn and
bell and all these sort of loud things.
So it really gives you a vibe. Now to
your question right who the hell decides
these words and of course right two
scores is not enough in reality if you
want to really know a word you got to go
for thousands and the answer of course
is uh no one uh the answer is machine
learning so back remember this estimate
case you remember I told you in this
estimate case you don't decide how much
a square foot is worth or how much a
bathroom is worth you just give the
model sort of the the the the the data
and it figures it out it tweaks the
numbers until you get to a good sort of
result and it turns out That's what
happens with these embeddings. And this
is truly a wild idea, but have you heard
this fact? People say that these large
language models are trained using all
the text on the internet.
>> Yes,
>> you've heard that said. That is the
training data they use. So, let me
explain how it works. They'll take
something like two words, let's say like
king or queen, two words. Those two
words, if you look on all the internet,
often they're going to be close to each
other when you see king. And so the
algorithm is going to realize, wait a
second, those two words or my x and y on
my piece of graph paper, they should be
close to each other because they often
occur together. And so they're going to
tweak the scores by a few decimal points
to get to get them closer to each other.
>> On the other hand, a word like, I don't
know, Pringle and existentialism, right?
Probably far apart. And so they're going
to be tweaked to get further apart.
>> Okay.
>> And Steve, it's actually astonishing.
But if you do that,
>> so the scores are constantly changing.
>> Constantly changing while the model is
being trained. So while OpenAI is
training that model and amazingly if you
do that enough you end up with something
that actually captures the meaning of
words. So you actually get clusters of
words that mean the same thing. You get
these crazy relationships where like if
you look at the difference numerically
on the graph paper between fkaca and
baguette it's kind of the same
difference as between France and Italy.
So it kind of understands the concept of
like country, right? And by the way I
mentioned this before our podcast. We'll
put a link in the show notes, but I
created a little online tool that your
listeners if they're interested, they
can go actually check this out and try
with a bunch of words. Um, and so at a
high level that is sort of how a large
language model understands text. There's
another complexity which is that of
course one word is not enough. You want
words in context, right? So if I say I
like figs and dates, I have a date
tonight and what is today's date? The
word date means very different things.
And so there and just again to maybe
link this to something some words your
listeners may have heard. I don't know
if you've heard of something called the
transformer. So it's this uh uh uh uh
mathematical technique that Google
published in 2017 that was kind of a big
uh breakthrough. All the transformer is
is Google realize how to make these
embeddings pay attention to each other.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. So that was my big explanation. So
how does an LM work and how does that
link to hallucinations? I know you are.
So I promise we're getting back to it.
>> I'm waiting with bait and breath
>> on the edge of your seat. I the answer
is going to be a little disappointing.
I'm warning you. But
>> okay,
>> basically when you ask a question of an
LLM,
>> yeah,
>> it first take your question, it
converts.
>> I got to ask you, why was Sandy Kofax
such a great baseball player?
>> What was Sandy Kofax such a great
baseball?
>> Perfect question to ask.
>> You're picking someone who was born in
France and grew up in England. So I may
or may not have heard of Sandy Kofax,
but we're not going to tell the
listeners that.
>> Great. He was the greatest baseball
pitcher in the early60s.
>> Great baseball pitcher. Great.
>> Okay.
>> So what the model is going to do is it's
going to take all the machinery I just
described. It's going to get this big
list of numbers that captures the
essence of your question. So if you
think again of our graph paper, it's
going to put it in a position that kind
of implies, oh, this is the vibe of the
question that Steve just asked. And then
it's literally going to say, what are
the words around? What are the words?
>> What are the words around Sandy Kof's
greatest picture?
>> Exactly. What are the sort of And then
it's going to pick one of those words
and then it's going to respond with that
one
>> and then it'll add another one.
>> But it's going to go back to the
beginning and search again and then add
another one.
>> Create those numbers again. Look at a
word nearby and another one, another
one, another one. So to your answer, why
does it hallucinate? The real crazy
question is why does it ever not
hallucinate, right? All it's doing is
it's getting that essence of your
question based on all the text he's seen
on the internet and everything it knows
about where text is on the internet and
then it just generates the next word
next word and the next word.
>> This is not what we would think of as
thinking.
>> Well, that's a absolutely amazing
question. Um there's actually a uh trick
that I love doing uh and I think this
really brings it home for people whether
this is thinking or not because you know
I think
>> take a step back a big question people
are asking is this going to get more
intelligent than humans right is this
going to eventually scale
how much can it scale is that thing so
>> but what you're saying is it's it's
almost like a miracle that you ever get
the right answer
>> exactly and I'll give you an example
that really shows what how much of a
miracle it is so if you ask a question
to this model and you Say, I have a bag
with five balls and the balls are
labeled A B CDE E.
>> Okay,
>> pick one at random and tell me the
letter on the ball.
So, as a human, if I ask you this,
>> yeah,
>> you could tell me I could ask a
10-year-old and they would tell me, "Oh,
well, you know, 20% of the time I'm
going to get A. 20% of the time I'm
going to get B. 20% of the time I'm
going to get C."
>> Right?
>> It turns out what you can do with these
large language model is, and you can't
do this on chairg.com, but if you can
code using something called API, you can
actually do this. You can ask chair GPT
when I ask you that question in your
internal LLM brain, what are the
probabilities you're thinking of? Like
what do you think the next word should
be? And it goes completely off the
rails. So Jad GBT will tell you 50% of
the time the answer should be C and 20%
of the time it should be A and 5% of the
time it's basically wrong. Now if you
think about why that is, it makes sense
because all chpt is doing it's taking
your big question, it's embedding it.
So, it's creating that essence, those
numbers, right, that that get the vibe
of the question. And then it's saying,
what is the closest sort of word that
maybe fits that answer, but that is not
how a human works. That's just not how
we think. It's just a very, very
different mode of thinking. Now, I need
to be clear.
>> It's not obvious to me that that mode of
thinking is in any way inferior to a
human mode of thinking. I mean, who
knows? But it's definitely different. It
is not the same thing. Okay. Yeah.
>> Hi, Steve Eisman here. When my kids were
little, I woke up one morning in a
panic. I realized that if something
happened to me, my family would be
completely unprotected. I immediately
went out and got life insurance so that
my family would be financially secure.
And I have never regretted that
decision. So stop procrastinating.
Getting life insurance is much easier
than you think. Fabric by Gerber Life
makes it easy to start the year knowing
your family has more financial
protection this year. Fabric by Gerber
Life is term life insurance you can get
done today. Made for busy parents like
you. All online on your schedule right
from your couch. You can be covered in
under 10 minutes with no health exam
required. If you've got kids and
especially if you're young and healthy,
the time to lock in low rates is now.
Fabric has flexible, highquality
policies that fit your family and your
budget. Like a million dollars in
coverage for less than a dollar a day.
Fabric has partnered with Gerber Life,
trusted by millions of families like
yours for over 50 years. There's no
risk. There's a 30-day money back
guarantee, and you can cancel at any
time. Join the thousands of parents who
trust fabric to help protect their
family. Apply today in just minutes at
meetfabric.com/isman.
That's
meetfabric.com/isman.mefabric.com/isman.
Policies issued by Western Southern Life
Assurance Company, not available in
certain states, prices subject to
underwriting and health questions. Hi,
Steve Eisman here. I run a small
business, so I know that running a small
business is tough. And when it's time to
get a loan, it can feel impossible to
find a lender you actually trust. Big
banks say no, and the internet is full
of sketchy offers with sky-high rates
and fine print you can barely read.
Whether you need help covering payroll,
managing cash flow, or investing in
growth, you deserve better. That's why I
recommend the small business
marketplace,
powered by Nerd Wallet. It's a free,
easytouse platform that lets you compare
real financing offers from trusted
lenders all in one place. What I like is
that you don't need Perfect Credit to
get started. No spam, no bait and
switch, just personalized options that
fit your business needs. In the future,
when my business needs a small business
loan, NerdWallet is where I'm going to
go. And here's the best part. For a
limited time, when you visit
nerdwallet.com/isman
and fill out the no obligation form,
you'll get VIP treatment and talk with a
real person who knows all the ins and
outs of small business lending. Don't
risk your business on unreliable
lenders. Go to nerdwallet.com/isman
to find the funding you deserve. Fender,
Inc. NMLS ID number 1240038.
>> So let's just explore for a second
um Gary Marcus for a little bit.
>> Yeah, totally.
>> Because you you watched the podcast.
>> I did listen to your fascinating
>> it was wonderful. I learned a ton. But
if I could maybe sum up his argument, I
think it would be two parts. He would
argue that
the improvements that we are getting as
large language mod the model that's out
there is we're going to keep scaling
large language models and they're going
to continue to get much much much much
better until we reach whatever we're
supposed to reach. and his his argument
is that we're already at a point where
large language models the improve the
marginal improvement from chap GPT5 to
four is less than four to three which
was less than 3 to two and so you're
getting diminishing returns and so that
if we're really going to take this thing
to where it needs to be we have to
go back almost to the to the drawing
board and and put in what he called
world models to to train these things on
much better that that that's one part of
his argument And his other part of his
argument is that given the way LLMs
work, they're always going to
hallucinate, which is a problem because
hallucinations are a problem because if
you use it, how do you know it's
hallucinating?
>> Right?
>> So, what do you think about all that?
>> I got so many thoughts. Uh, so let's
first I think uh, you know, just
definitionally for your listeners just
so that they sort of get where we are
when we say scaling a model,
>> right? When I describe those embeddings
and those transformers and those
parameters that you look at data and you
tweak the parameters scaling just means
more data you just create more not so
much well more data as well that's one
way of scaling it that's one dimension
but the other dimension is actually more
parameters more complexity in the
calculations right and that's why by the
way it takes so many more chips and so
much more energy and so on
>> so in other words a a word doesn't have
two variables two scores it might have a
thousand variables
>> that is exactly one way you could scale
and another way you could scale is those
transformers which we didn't spend too
long talking about but they also have
their own set of parameters and there's
many more than in the variables and the
words and you can add to those we don't
need to get into the details but
basically adding parameters is a big
thing okay so that's just the first
thing I want to put out there that's
what we mean by scaling and as you said
the sort of at least zit guys for a
while was that the more we scale the
better these models are going to get now
I do want to say one thing and Gary
almost touched on that in your
conversation and I want to you know and
I think he probably would have talked
about it further
>> I want to point out what we mean better
because we never ask like what exactly
does that mean better what does it mean
better uh better typically when a new
model comes out better means that it
performs better on a very very specific
set of benchmarks the computer science
community has a whole bunch of these
benchmarks that these models get tested
on and you know there's a bunch of
examples one of them is called the
massive multitask language understanding
benchmark stands for MMLU it's basically
you can think of it as like an SAT exam
you give it you give the large language
model this exam can it answer the
question so I just want to put that out
that you know doing well at an SAT exam
is not necessarily
it is part of intelligence but it's not
the only thing about intelligence and so
there's actually a lot of research going
on now on what it means to actually test
those models better like what other
benchmarks could we use that maybe are
uh sort of you know more revealing than
the current ones we're using I actually
have a colleague at the business school
Hong Namkung and I'm very fortunate to
get to work with him a bit he's trying
to build benchmarks based on like work
in Excel right can we give it an Excel
spreadsheet and can it actually build
the DCF or can it figure out what the
error is in the formula. So anyway, a
lot of research there on figuring out
how those models can sort of uh can sort
of uh be made uh sort of uh be tested
sort of better. So that's the first
thing I would say. Second thing I would
say is that you know Gary in some ways
I he has incredible knowledge of what
actual intelligence is. I mean he's done
so much research that's been through you
know his life's work. One thing that
mystifies me a little, someone who
doesn't have Gary's knowledge, is I
think we easily throw around phrases
like, "Oh, are these models going to get
better than humans? Are we going to get
super intelligence?" I'm like, I don't
know what that means exactly in the
sense of like,
>> well, I think they're all thinking, you
know, we all watch Terminator growing up
and we're just trying to figure out when
that's going to happen, we'll have to go
into hiding. You know, I can't actually
overstate this because all the people in
this world are like science fiction
geeks and they they grew up on this.
They take this very seriously. They're
sincerely worried about this.
>> You know, Steve, it's funny. It reminds
me of a Have you seen Goodwill Hunting?
So, you know, for those who don't know,
it's a movie about there's this genius
genius kid, but he's very led a very
troubled life and his therapist is
played by the late Robin Williams. And
there's this scene in that movie that I
just love where the therapist is sitting
with with with Matt Damon who's playing
the who's playing the kid and he's like,
you know,
>> you're so smart. If I ask you about
Michelangelo, you could tell me
everything about him, right?
>> But can you tell me what it smells like
in the Systeine Chapel? Or if I asked
you about love, you could like recite
>> a but do you know what it is to really
love a woman?
>> Exactly. So it's like it's an amazing
scene and sometimes I think about that
when it comes to large language model
where it's so difficult to get your
finger on what it means for a model to
be human and sure the model sort of you
know destroying all of us is maybe an
extreme version of that but there's
plenty of steps in between and so it's
kind of it's kind of hard to uh to uh to
define Gary clearly thinks that they
can't scale to sort of you know a level
where they have the same intelligence as
humans and the truth is I don't think I
disagree I certainly that most people I
respect would probably agree that the
current way large language models just
like this predict the next word, predict
the next word, predict the next word
might not scale to sort of a level of uh
of superhuman intelligence. But I do
just want to point out it's very
difficult to really get your finger on
what that means and to kind of know sort
of, you know, when you've uh when you've
reached uh uh that point. Um a few more
things to say here. I'll just give you
the headlines and you tell me if you
want to hear about them. Uh, another
thing I'd want to probably talk about is
the fact that, you know, I think maybe
we'll get there at the end, but one
thing we sometimes miss, you know, in a
conversation about is this going to get
super intelligent is even if it isn't,
>> maybe it's worthwhile anyway.
>> Maybe there's so, and I'm going to take
away the maybe from that, there is still
so much value in the models. If you told
me today these models will never get
better. They will hallucinate forever.
They will whatever sort of the
shortcomings are today, they will remain
forever. I have personally seen in my
work with companies there is still so
much value that you can capture.
>> Let's explore that.
>> Yeah. I just want to say maybe we'll
talk about that at the end. There's a
lot of research going on now on just
whole new paradigm. So you mentioned
world models. That's one example. Maybe
at the end we'll talk about those but
I'm saying like the research it's not
like it's not like people at OpenAI and
Anthropic are just sitting there being
like well we give up. They're just you
know scaling is done and you know that's
it. We're done. There's plenty of other
places people are going but maybe let's
get to value. Yeah. What do you think
these large language given the project
that ex as as it exists today? What do
you think these and we'll get to the
agentic stuff? We'll come to that. Let's
just start with the large language. What
are these things good for?
>> When I think of the value that I get out
of them, that people I've worked with
get out of them, that companies get out
of them, I think about them in three
buckets. Okay?
>> Right? One bucket is probably uh the
least obvious. That's why I say it first
is taking those classical machine
learning models which as you correctly
pointed out have been around for like
years and making them better using those
LLMs and we can talk about some examples
of that.
>> The second bucket is aai and we'll talk
about that too. And the third bucket is
and this sounds very it's the most
obvious one but just using them as chat
bots. Like I think they've been around
now for a few years and so it's easy to
just like lose track of how magical they
actually are.
>> So let's let's explore all three. Let's
start with the first one.
>> Let's start with the first one. So
probably easiest to explore with
examples but I've seen so many places
where this genai can take classical
machine learning and supercharge it. So
let's start with the first example.
Okay,
>> suppose you run a website where there is
um user content that is posted and this
could be anything. Could be a social
media network. It could be a e-commerce
platform where people write reviews,
anything like that, a Reddit, whatever
it might be. One problem that bedevils
websites like that, companies like that,
and that's been the case forever is
content moderation. Right? You've got to
if someone posts a comment to your
website, you've got to make sure it's
not illegal, it's not abusive, it's not
you're going to have a bunch of rules as
to what what comments can go on there.
And you know it may sound like a kind of
esoteric operational thing but this is
huge. I mean people pay enormous teams
of people and these are expensive teams
to really look through those websites.
And it turns out the quality of content
like if you look at Amazon
>> a lot of the value Amazon provides not
the only value but a lot of the value is
the reviews right I mean there's a lots
for example super super super valuable.
And so forever, for a long time, these
companies have been using machine
learning models to try and identify,
automatically flag what comments should
go to a human, right? How do we look at
something and figure out, ah, this might
be suspicious. Let's send it to a human
to review. So, for example, they might
look for specific words, right? They
might look for maybe the length of the
message, the time it's posted, the
location it's posted from, etc. The
problem with that, and it goes back to
the problem from your very first
question, what can these LLMs do that
that machine learning can't? they can't
actually understand the meaning of the
message, right? They can look for a word
in it, but that doesn't tell them what
the, you know, the full meaning of the
message is. So, for example, right, this
is a law. I don't know if it's true, but
people used to think that if you write a
message or post a video with the word
kill on Instagram, it'll de prioritize
it because it thinks it's bad. And so
now people have started using the word
unal alive instead of kill because hey,
then the algorithm, you know, can't
can't catch it. And so these machine
learning algorithms were always bedeled
by this problem that they what I've seen
people do with tremendous success is
they now say wait a second we're going
to stick with these machine learning
algorithms but we're going to inject
some Gen AI into it by having the Gen AI
look at these comments people are
posting and getting the Gen AI to
actually extract meaning from it because
we saw it can do that right it can
actually get meaning from those messages
and so examples of ways people have done
it the simplest way which is not
necessarily the is you literally go to a
chatbot, you give it the message, and
you say, "Hey, give me a score from 1 to
10. How likely is it that this is bad?"
And then it'll give you a number, and
then you put that into your machine
learning model. But an even smarter way
that I've seen is you can take that
message, and you remember going way back
when we talked about embeddings. So, you
can take the message, you can get
numbers for that message, right? Put it
on this XY axis. And then you can use
those numbers, those scores, even though
they don't really mean anything. They're
just like the internal guts of the of
the Genai. You can use those numbers as
an indicator. Maybe you look at
historical data and you say, "Wait a
second. When that second score is high,
that tends to be suspicious, so I'm
going to maybe moderate it." And I've
really seen people do that to great
effect. And the truth is, I talked about
content moderation. Any example, any use
case where you want to make predictions
and there is text involved. This can
really provide a lot of value and can be
very useful. And notice how in some ways
hallucinations don't really matter
because you're now I mean, they matter,
right? you'd rather the model didn't
hallucinate but you're not using the
model by itself you're putting it in the
context of a bigger machine learning
model that you can control that you can
evaluate that you can check and so
that's just one example I think where
you know huge value uh uh can be
generated
>> so that's that's one let's talk about uh
what is this agentic AI that I keep
>> funny we will get to agentic just so you
know we will I'll skip to aentic that
first category I had six examples ready
but we we'll go I mean I'm only saying
that to give you an idea that like there
is just so much there's a lot there's a
lot you can do
>> you know I don't on CNBC, I hear the
words agentic AI and I I guarantee you
that nine out of 10 people that are
talking about agentic AI have absolutely
no idea what they're talking and I'll be
the first one to admit that I don't know
what it is. So what what is it?
>> It's so buzzy. Um
>> it's it is so buzzy. I have good news.
It's like it's like you hear this word
like it's going to save the world. It's
going to wipe out the management
consulting business. I mean Agentic AI
has accomplished so much and it hasn't
accomplished anything yet. So what is
this thing? Who was it that quipped in
the early days of the PC revolution that
you know you see PCs everywhere except
for the productivities numbers or I
there was like anyway okay I have good
news for you. Agentic AI is really quite
simple. It's basically just a large
language model. A chatbot with a pair of
hands.
>> What does that mean?
>> So what what does that mean? It is a
chatbot that is given the ability to do
things in the real world like send a
text like send an email like process a
credit card transaction like process a
return. And so the way this works in
practice, the way companies do this and
let's take the most common example of an
agentic AI is maybe a customer service
chatbot. You as the company when you set
up this agentic AI, you create a bunch
of tools like a bunch of, you know, IT
functions, basically functions that say,
okay, this is, you know, will process a
return for a customer. This will ship an
order. This will send an email. This
will send a text. This will refund a
credit card transaction. And you make
all those tools available. And when you
set up your chatbot, you just tell the
chatbot literally like in the text of
the chatbot. There's smarter ways to do
it, but that's a simple version. You
tell it a customer is about to ask you a
question. And by the way, here are a
bunch of things you can do.
>> This sounds a lot, but it sounds a lot I
had an interview with uh the CFO of a
new company that just went public in the
summer, and it's a it's a travel agency
company,
>> but it's a completely new company. And
the way the CFO described it was that
prior to what they do, you know, if you
were gonna if you were going to go and
book a business trip, you know, from
start to finish, it would take you at
least 45 minutes to an hour to, you
know, book the trip, book the the rental
car, get the hotel. They have created a
an an AI system from scratch where you
can do this all in seven minutes.
>> That's aentic AI
>> precisely. And again, exactly as I
described it, what I assume happens in
that company is internally they've
created some nice pipes where you can
easily book a flight, book a hotel, look
for flights, look for hotels, and then
the chatbot gets the ability as you're
chatting with the chatbot, it can say,
"Ah, I would like to now call this hotel
booking tool. I would like to call this
send a text tool. I would like to call
this send an email tool." And so on and
so forth. And one thing I think this
really highlights, and this is like the
number one thing that usually, you know,
if company comes to me and says, "We
want to use AI, what can we do?" The
number one thing I usually tell them is
you've got to first create a fertile
environment, a an environment in your
company that is able to benefit from
that AI. And in the example, for
example, you need to have the IT systems
that allow a computer to book a flight
or to process a return or to whatever
doesn't happen magically,
>> right? If you're, let's say, a mandopme
and you still take orders by hand and
you're writing down, you don't need
GPT75. You need like just your IT
systems to be in a way that can actually
sort of facilitate those things. And
that's kind of why I say I think you
know sometimes you know we talk about
the AI bubble I sometimes people
sometimes conflate the previous question
we spoke about like will AI scale will
it become super intelligent with do we
have an AI bubble so they figure you
know if AI scales to be like superhuman
then we don't have an AI bubble but if
AI stays the way it is today then we
have an AI bubble and I don't think it's
that simple like I would say even if
models stay exactly the way they are
today if companies get their house
together in terms of the IT and in terms
of the systems in terms of the data But
that's a major issue because most of the
companies in the world I don't think
have their data set up in such a way
where they can really say they have to
actually go through a process where they
have to put their data all in one place
and clean it up etc before they can do
any of this.
>> And by the way Steve I got to say just
as a human my favorite thing about Chen
AI when I work with companies my
favorite thing is it almost now
motivates companies to do this. Like 5
years ago I would go to a company and
say you know you got to put your data
into one place you got to organize. as
you go and they'll be like ah boring you
know we want now it's like all right
that's what I got to do to get geni
working let's go but but you know but uh
absolutely you got to do that uh and so
that really is what genti is by the way
I mean just one more example because I
think it's you know might be relevant to
your listeners uh people are now working
these are in their infancy uh uh
anthropic is finally releasing this to
the public there are excel agents now
where the tools I mentioned that the
chatbot has are tools like create a
pivot table right into this Excel
create change the color of a cell and so
you're talking with a chatbot and you
tell it for example can you build me a
DCF for Nvidia right and it will be able
to use that tool and actually change
your Excel spreadsheet as you're talking
to it right so if that actually works
you can imagine that would sort of be uh
pretty amazing I would say that's still
in their infancy but you know things are
moving fast so so who knows so that's
the agenting sort of bucket
>> and what else do you think this can do
>> the large language models yeah so you
know I think it's worth uh mentioning uh
just chat bots themselves right I mean
is literally chatgptt.com Claude Gemini
whatever it might be uh they're great
they can write emails they can sort of
you know do all these things that uh uh
again now we kind of take for granted
I'm actually curious do you use them at
all in your workflow dayto-day
>> I I use you know uh Gemini all all the
time for research
>> it's useful for research sort of you
know I mean to write code by the way I
mean the extent to which these models
have gotten better at writing code in
the last 6 months is just I mean
sometimes gives me existential dread I
love writing code and I just like wow
they're good now again still not I got a
lot of push back on that from a whole
bunch of different coders who watch my
show. You know, some of them were of the
view that, you know, there were parts of
coding that that helped, but parts of
coding that it really didn't help. It
was kind of all over the place. There
was no there was no consensus.
>> I'm going to tell you two things about
that. First thing is
if you'd asked me six months ago,
>> yeah,
>> I would have basically said forget about
it. They're useful search engine for
code, right? If you want to create one
or two lines of code, but you know,
that's pretty much it. they've really
improved. I mean, I would encourage any
listeners who haven't used clawed code
recently or just haven't used cloud just
by itself to write code, especially
front-end design. So, creating a web
page, a nicel looking website. Uh truly,
if you're someone who's sitting here
thinking, nah, they'll never sort of do
anything. Try it right now.
>> Okay. So, it's gotten a lot better.
>> Gotten a lot better. Having said that, I
agree with them. I mean I still think
there is a certain level of creativity
required in sort of architecting a
software solution in making sure it
doesn't go off the rails and making sure
it's secure and so on that is uh you
know that still needs a human involved.
That said sometimes I wonder and I got
to tell you Steve like I I love coding.
I think it's a fun exercise. It's
creative and sometimes I wonder if I you
know if I'm sounding like an artist who
says like you know I I love creating art
but these models you know well they're
nowhere near as good as I am. And so I
don't know that there's a there's an
element of similarity there. So anyway,
I'm not sort of saying it's definitely
amazing at coding. I'm just saying there
is certain parts of coding that it's
certainly really uh really really good
at. Uh last thing I'll say just about
chatbots is I think they are um they are
really uh something people sometimes
don't know is at least from a enterprise
setting they can be customized quite
well. So you can do things like give
them trolls of documents, right? Like
thousands tens of thousands of documents
and then what they do back to the
embeddings we spoke about there's a
reason I mentioned them. They're
everywhere. You can take those
documents, you can embed the documents.
You give the documents like a vibe
basically. You say, "Ah, this document
has this kind of vibe. This one has this
kind of vibe." And then when you're
chatting with a chatbot, it can search
through those documents because it can
say, let's say you ask uh uh you ask the
chatbot, "Show me my contract that has
the highest, I don't know, the risk or
whatever it might be that is the most."
It can say, "Okay, risky contract that
has a vibe. I can embed that and I can
put that somewhere. Let me now look at
the document that has the closest vibe
and it finds it." And it's just amazing
how well it does that.
>> Let me ask you about uh sort of the from
a business perspective two um what would
be the right word
hot topics.
So
you know last year if you were to look
at uh you know what did well in tech and
what did not do well in tech which is
always I find it very interesting
because people just say tech tech did
great you know buy tech you know blah
blah blah. So la last year you know
leave leave aside just the mag seven as
as a category but you know anybody
involved with selling chips did great
whether it's GPUs CPUs memory chips they
did great so hardware companies
generally did well um hyperscalers who
are buying these chips and creating AI
data centers did well but the two groups
that did terribly would be software
companies and some iconic software
companies like Salesforce
service now and the argument about why
they did poorly was that the cost of
creating software
quote unquote is collapsing and so
therefore the moes that these companies
have around them are not as strong. That
was one group and the other group were
the management consultants because you
know the argument is why do I need a
management consultant when for you know
90% of the stuff that I used to ask a
management consultant about I could ask
chat GPT and he gives it to me for free.
So what do you just think about those
two sort of are it's you know sometimes
it's a narrative and you know in the in
the business world when a narrative
takes hold it's very hard to for that
narrative to die until it like somebody
beats it to death.
>> So I just curious what you think of
those narratives.
>> Let me give you some thoughts. I should
just say up front I am like in awe of
people like you who can actually
get an idea at least of where the market
is going. Like I always I can have an
idea of I have an idea of these topics.
How those are going to then move the
market. God knows it seems to be like a
beast that I sort of you know don't
fully understand.
>> That's okay. That's not why you're here.
>> No totally totally. Um so let's talk
about software companies first and we'll
get to the you know the the cost of
developing software or otherwise. I just
want to first express some sympathy in
the sense that like I've certainly felt
this way even with teaching it is like
we are building a car like sorry driving
a car learning how to drive a car while
it's being built like literally every 5
seconds you sneeze and there's a new
kind of AI that totally changes the way
you uh uh uh you know your offering the
way you should design your software the
way you should offer it enterprises
especially company of the size of the
size of Salesforce they're just not
designed to operate at that speed I mean
that's Wild, wild, wild, wild.
>> So things are happening very rapidly.
>> Very rapidly. And I would just say I
don't this is not a prediction, but I've
got a thing just from like a just purely
sort of logical perspective. It's going
to have to slow down at some point. At
some point we're going to reach a place
where a lot of the low-lying fruits have
been harvested and we're now and so I I
would just sort of put that here first
of all that you know we are very much
it's like it's almost like saying you
know eight months into co oh look this
company is sort of doing well or badly
or whatever. I mean sure but things were
just moving like the entire structure of
the world was was changing. So that's
the first thing I'll say you know the
fact that the cost of software is
dropping and people might develop their
own software maybe I mean I've told you
I've you know put up front the fact that
I think uh uh uh you know coding using
LLM is uh is uh they're good whether
they're perfect definitely not and so
on. I will say though I think people are
underestimating the fact that like
Salesforce is not just providing code
software. I mean they are but they're
also providing an entire structure a way
of thinking about your business a way of
you know like can you corral a whole
bunch of people together in your
business to actually agree to use this
piece of software. And so I'm not saying
that's going to be replaced but I'm
saying there's probably a place they
could evolve that involves like that
puts more emphasis on those on all the
things around software rather than just
the software itself. Right? Meaning
imagine if every single employee of
yours could build their own Salesforce,
their own sort of I don't know CRM let's
say to sort of manage customers. It
would be chaos. I mean everyone has a
CRM. Which one do you use? Which one is
right? Which one is wrong? How do you
verify it? Whom do you trust? So you
know
>> I was actually thinking about also you
know there are certain companies that
control databases.
>> Yeah.
>> And like let's say I'm the guy who has
the best database about commercial real
estate. Sure.
>> And I've I've had this business forever.
I would think somebody could come in
today
and do it a lot cheaper than I than I
have done it. And you know, no one has
ever been able to attack me because I
quote unquote control this database. But
I I think that that people who have
certain types of databases are
vulnerable to this world.
>> I think that's true. I mean, I'll give
you one example of some example of a
place that's really vulnerable. If your
entire database is predicated on the
fact that you just like looked at a
whole bunch of handwritten documents or
type documents that weren't digitized
and you you know painstakingly sort of
you know extracted the data from them
and that gave you that database you are
really susceptible to disruption because
now these large language models you give
them a PDF and using all the techniques
we spoke about they just extract the
data in a second. So I think you know
that's one end of the spectrum. the
other end of the spectrum maybe the
extreme version of such a company is
Bloomberg right I mean there all these
data feeds they have etc I would imagine
and I don't know sort of a huge amount
about it I would imagine there would be
much harder
>> that's much harder because they have so
many different databases
>> yeah and you know I'll say there is a
world in which you know we always forget
the fact and this is you know the the
the paradox everyone likes to mention
these days but the fact that and I
forget the name of the paradox uh uh but
if you now have a if it's now much
easier to create these databases yes
you're going to disrupt people who've
had them in the past, but you're also
going to have many more. There's going
to be many sort of more places where
you're suddenly able to create these
databases you didn't have before. Uh uh
right. Just I mean to give you another
example, you know, I said when we first
discussed using Genai to strengthen
machine learning, I said I had plenty of
other examples. I'll slip one in right
now because it applies just you know the
fact that you could now take a bunch of
text and even take images and create
these embeddings, these essences, these
vibes that kind of allows you to build
databases you would never have had
before. You could look at millions of
images, right? Look at millions of
pieces of text. You can embed them. You
can put them on this XY plane that kind
of defines their essence and you can
start saying, "Okay, if someone searches
for a particular term, I can now surface
the right images and the right pieces of
text that just relate to that particular
term." So, you can imagine whole new
kinds of databases, whole new kinds of
uh of uh of data that are created by
this.
>> So, let's talk about management
consulting because because that's sort
of a pet peeve of mine over the years.
And you know the argument that people
have is you know you used to hire a
management consultant because you you
they have this this information and
they're going to come in and now I don't
need a management consultant because
I'll just ask chat GPT and it'll give it
to me in two seconds.
>> Let me just tell you something. I you
know Palanteer is not a management
consultant by any way shape or form but
you know there is some services element
to the to the business and I remember
sometimes musing with um
with my colleagues there maybe I
shouldn't say this but I remember musing
with my colleagues there that like
sometimes a lot of the value we provided
was just getting all the people in a
room together like like literally we
would go to a company because they
wanted to use data analytics AI they
wanted to use our platform and in that
room there was the CEO and the CTO and
someone on the ground who actually
worked with the data and someone who
knew what the day and like literally all
those people had never been in a room
together before, right? So, you know, so
again I I'm I'm going to an extreme
here. I'm simplifying, but I think there
is that element of management
consulting, that external view that
getting people together, which yeah,
maybe LLMs could put together, but I
think and again also I don't know much
necessarily about the world of
management consulting. I haven't been at
Mackenzie, Bane, or BTG or whatever. I
was you know Palante which is a very
different kind of kind of beast but I
could definitely imagine you know
thinking of the services side of
Palante's business let's say right which
is not management consulting but
certainly that I I you know I really see
a lot of value in like getting all the
people in the room together
understanding how you want to take again
your very messy business where
everything is done by pen and paper and
bringing all the data into one place and
figuring out what's happening so I could
easily see the the the big management
consulting shops kind of shifting and
they already are kind of shifting in
that direction. Uh and then also maybe
there's still value to sort of classical
management consulting. I don't know
enough about it to you know.
>> So le let's go back to something that we
talked about where so many companies
don't even have their data in a position
to actually
>> I mean in in your travels
>> if we're talking about let's say the S&P
500 or the S&P 1000 you know whatever. I
mean, if nobody's data is in a is in a
position to do any of this stuff, then
AI is academic at this point in that in
that sense because so many of the
companies don't. So, where do you think
corporate America actually is to be able
to to do any of this stuff these days?
>> Yeah, it's a great question, you know,
and the last research I've seen that
actually tries to figure that out
systematically was a long time ago. And
there it was something like, you know,
5% some ridiculously small number, but
it was a long time ago. I don't think
that's true anymore today because you're
right if if the data is not in the right
place there's just nothing you can
really do with any of this stuff. I will
say that there's a there's a factor
which is that the AI itself can be very
helpful in cleaning that data, right?
And so there's a company I worked with I
read a case with AI consultant CEO
called Blend 360. They had a client that
had this issue in their data where they
were the client was formed through a
bunch of acquisitions and they were a
B2B sort of shop and they were formed
through a bunch of acquisitions and
everyone they had multiple databases
listing their customers and every
database used a different name. So, one
database would say the client is
Coca-Cola. Let's say one database would
say it's Coca-Cola Company. The other
one would say it's Coke. The other one
would say it's CCNA or whatever. And
what they did, which I thought was just
genius, is they used a large language
model to clean that up because if you
ask a large language model, is Coca-Cola
the same as a Coca-Cola company? It is
going to be damn good at doing that. It
knows the world. It knows everything. So
that's just one example where it's not
geni quad geni it's not like for the
geni itself but it really it transformed
things for them because now they had
this unified data set they could
actually use use machine learning. So
I'll say I know I'm not directly
answering your question but but but I
think there is hope that uh um the genai
not only sort of is useful with the data
but also that it can actually help uh uh
uh sort of formalize and clean and sort
of put that data in a better place in a
way that that makes it more valuable.
But I I do think we're far I mean I
think you know outside from the very big
companies uh uh that maybe have the
resources or maybe need to for
compliance reasons just have that data
in a good place I think there's you know
a lot uh of midsize companies certainly
the not even close
>> certainly the ones I speak to that
there's just a lot of work to be done to
get things in in in good places.
>> So what else should we talk about before
we we finish up here?
>> What else should we talk about? maybe it
makes sense to talk a little bit about
um what people are excited about when it
comes to kind of next generations of of
models, things that are in research. So
there's a bunch of places people are
going. So one thing that I think your
listeners may find interesting is um so
you know how I I kind of explained how
the way these models are trained is it
just tries to predict the next word and
the next word and the next word and the
next word and you know a model is
considered good at least in training
when you're tweaking the weights. It's
considered good if it does a good job
predicting the next word.
>> Correct?
>> And so what people have started doing uh
and they did this in the early days but
now there are even sort of smarter ways
of doing this is they're trying to say
instead of just tweaking the parameters
of the model using that the next word
prediction can we actually look at the
full answer maybe get the large language
model to generate many answers because
it can because of the randomness that I
told you about. So you can get many
answers and then you judge the answers
not by each token one by one but by
where it got to at the end. Did it
finally at the end get me sort of the
right result.
>> And the traditional way of doing that
was something called reinforcement
learning with human feedback RLHF. Uh
that's been around for a while but now
people are doing and sorry for the
jargon here but they're doing something
called reinforcement learning with
verifiable rewards RLVR. That's sort of
a big new thing they're doing which is
can you try and use things that are
automatically verifiable like sums like
math for example and can you use that to
try and sort of train the models in that
way and it's had you know quite a bit of
quite a bit of success by the way do you
remember deepseek that that novel that
came out right that was
>> people were amazed at how good it was
and how it was trained sort of you know
so so cheaply to the extent it was and
there sort of
>> statement to begin with that was a
controversial statement to begin with
but to the extent it was a lot of it was
they improved that process the RHF
process was you know they did a better
job there so One direction to think
about that I think has a lot of promise.
World models is something Gary sort of
mentioned last time. I don't know a huge
amount about them. They're still very
very experimental. But the idea behind
these world models is basically can we
give the large language model kind of
its own version of the matrix like you
know the movie like its own version of
like a mini world inside of it. And so
for example when we ask pick a ball from
the bag you remember the example before
five balls ABCDE E pick one at random.
Instead of using the embeddings and
figuring out where the embedding is and
figuring out the next word, the model
would be able to use this little mini
matrix to actually like create a bag
with five balls and pick the right ball
and then see where the letter is and
then give you sort of a better answer.
And you can imagine a world model that
like, you know, knows all the laws of
physics and knows the way the planet
works and so on. So that's kind of an
exciting uh uh uh direction. I don't
know enough about it to tell you whether
it's something I'm, you know, I think is
good, I think it's bad, whatever.
there's clearly very very smart people
that are sort of going down that
direction. But that's another
interesting thing to uh to think about.
Um maybe last thing that's worth talking
about
>> for everything we've spoken about
machine learning models, AI models etc.
I think it is ultimately important to
remember that these models are just at
least right now statistical parrots that
are just paring existing data and that
can lead to all the kinds of issues
we've spoken about things like
statistical par. So exactly sort of what
we were describing they will take a a
question you put in they will embed them
right put them in a space and then find
sort of words around it but what that
determination is based on is just all
the historical data you put into the
models to train them right so that's
what I mean by statistical par this is
all statistics that's being used to
figure out you know what the embeddings
are what the closest words are they're
just trying to replicate
>> so that's why it has problems with
novelty because novelty is not in the
database
>> because novelty is not in the database
but then it can have bigger problems
which is just that like you know the
training data that is put into the model
by definition is going to have some
biases it's going to have some
preconceptions of the world it's going
to have some and you know sometimes
those work for you sometimes they don't
I mean just to give you an example I
recommend any of your listeners should
go on uh on uh uh chipt and ask it or
any other model generate a picture of a
typical American boy for me and it'll
come up with a picture might be what you
had in mind what not what you had in
mind but it has an assumption about what
that is what that means what American
means and You know, again, in that case,
it's maybe innocuous, but in some cases,
it's not innocuous.
>> So, you're saying the models could have
like a political bias, a moral bias.
>> The model definitely has a political
bias. The model definitely has a moral
bias.
>> How does it how does it get a political
bias? How does it get a moral bias?
>> So, two ways. The first way is through
that training I spoke about, right? It
looks at all the text on the internet
and to the extent that all the text on
the internet has a political bias, it's
going to sort of absorb that. But then
there's that second stage that I just
briefly mentioned, this RLHF,
reinforcement learning from human
feedback. That is a process where AI
companies will literally look at entire
conversations and will tell the model
that was a good conversation, that was a
bad conversation. And so, for example,
>> uh uh uh let's say you have a large
language model that starts being like
super abusive and threatening and
anti-Semitic and racist and whatever.
The AI company will say, "Whoa, that's a
bad conversation. Let's try and shift
the parameters to get less of that." And
as part of that process, it can just
gather all these sort of you know biases
about the world. Some of them are
intentional, but some of them can be
unintentional, right? It's not to say
that uh uh uh you know that they're
intentional. So that's certainly sort of
you know a uh and this gets especially
bad. You know when we said agentic AI
when we're giving the model a pair of
hands
>> if we now start allowing the model to do
things in the real world right you were
talking about Terminator. You could
imagine a crazy situation where you have
a model that isn't so good that
hallucinates that can't come up with the
right thing and you kind of allow it
suddenly to do I don't know to sue
someone let's say right as a law firm I
mean that could be that could be quite
>> send an email that's terrible
>> send an email that's terrible you can
imagine even worse you give it access to
weapons or whatever things like that and
so I always like to say like I'm not as
worried about human intellig about
artificial intelligence as I am about
human stupidity right that they're
giving those models a tool and so I
think a lot of that infrastructure
around getting those models to work. The
thing I said that is currently the
bottleneck, the gating factor being
ready for this is also to think about,
okay, if I give my tool the ability to,
let's say, process a credit card
transaction, what kind of fences do I
put around that? What kind of, you know,
safeguards? Maybe I only allow it to go
up to a certain amount. Maybe, you know,
that that that kind of stuff.
>> So, I'm going to give you the last word.
So, we had, as I said, Gary Marcus on.
just sum up your view of where we are in
this world and and and how hopeful you
are about what what this world's going
to be like.
>> Good question. How hopeful am I? Okay,
I'll tell you one thing. I don't know
how hopeful or unhopful this makes me,
but I think the one takeaway I want
people to maybe take from my view here
uh um is that even if everything uh Gary
said was right and his view is right,
which I actually don't, there's nothing
he said that I thought, oh, I disagree
with this. I want people to realize that
there's still a lot of value to be
gotten out today. And that value could
be for real good. I mean, there's a lot
of stuff, you know, you were talking,
you spoke about the US healthcare system
and how difficult it is and and and
complicated it is to sometimes file
claims and appeal things and whatever.
That is something AI could really do a
lot of good for, right, if it's done
right, if it's structured correctly and
so on and so forth. So, I think there's
a lot of good and a lot of value that
can be done, a lot of really a lot of
sort of uh good stuff that can be done.
And so, I guess I would encourage people
to maybe worry a little well that's not
true. they should also worry about the
future and if we get Terminator and
whatever that that's worthwhile but also
spend a bit of time asking okay I've got
this wonderful toy right now today sort
of you know what can I do with it what
can it do for me what what can I do with
it and hopefully this has been a bit of
a of inspiration for what uh and as I
said I'll put we'll put in the show
notes this little sort of tools I put
together so people can actually play
around with some of the concept sort of
we we discussed and hopefully they
really get to see how you know these are
not uh these are not magical
technologies these are very much just
you know calculations statistics ics,
but that put together just result in
this truly wondrous uh sort of set of
models.
>> That was great. Thank you very much.
>> So much fun. Thanks so much, Steve.
>> Glad to have you.
>> That was some interview. And my
takeaways are that there's quite a bit
of overlap in agreement between Gary and
Professor Getta, but also quite a bit of
disagreement. So if if Gary was here, he
would say I think that the LLM models
are losing their efficaciousness and
they will never ever ever produce
returns that justify the hundreds of
billions of dollars that the industry is
spending. I think that's what Gary would
say. Professor Guetta I think pointed
out he agrees that LLMs are not going to
achieve artificial general intelligence
but at the end he doesn't really think
that matters because the LLM models and
the agentic AI chat bots etc are good
enough to produce really efficacious
products and you know recently there
have been a whole bunch bunch of
announcements of agentic AI chat bots
that have really shaken up the industry.
You've seen insurance brokers get
impacted, wealth managers get impacted.
Everybody's scared that this is actually
going to work and the amount of money
that the industry is spending to achieve
all this is not stopping. You know, I
think I would side a little bit more
with Professor Guetta here that you're
going to see a lot more products. What
we don't know and which I think is
really the question is is all this money
going to going to achieve returns that
justify the investments and frankly
we're not going to know that. We're not
going to know that for a while. I don't
think we're going to know that this
year. I think all we're going to see are
a lot of announcements that are sound
very exciting but we may not know till
2027 2028 whether all the this
investment is going to produce returns
that justify it. So until then, I think
the story will stay the same. The
hyperscalers will continue to spend
money and people will be questioning
whether this is really all worth it.
This podcast is forformational purposes
only and does not constitute investment
advice. The hosts and guests may hold
positions in stocks discussed. Opinions
expressed are their own and not
recommendations. Please do your own due
diligence and consult a licensed
financial adviser before making any
investment decisions.